PANA-EXP - Adding docs for the experimentation feature (#32587)
DataDog/documentation: content/en/product_analytics/experimentation/minimum_detectable_effect.md

---
title: Minimum Detectable Effects
description: Determine the smallest detectable difference that may result in a statistically significant experiment result.
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-product-analytics/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Make data-driven design decisions with Product Analytics"
- link: "/product_analytics/analytics_explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Analytics Explorer"
---

## Overview
A Minimum Detectable Effect (MDE) is the smallest change you can detect between experiment variants for a given metric. MDEs can be absolute (for example, a $1,000 increase) or relative (for example, a 10% increase). Datadog uses relative MDEs, expressed as percentage change from the control.

> ## Differences between true and measured effects? 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Differences between true and measured effects? 
```
per slack convo just making a note to update the headings from the last review :)

---
title: Minimum Detectable Effects
description: Determine the smallest detectable difference that may result in a statistically significant experiment result.
further_reading:
- link: "https://www.datadoghq.com/blog/datadog-product-analytics/"
  tag: "Blog"
  text: "Make data-driven design decisions with Product Analytics"
- link: "/product_analytics/analytics_explorer/"
  tag: "Documentation"
  text: "Analytics Explorer"
---

## Overview

> A Minimum Detectable Effect (MDE) is a core concept in experimentation that explains (`CALCULATES?`) the smallest difference that you are able to detect in a metric between your experiment’s variants. In general, MDEs can be defined in absolute terms (for example, a $1,000 increase in revenue) or relative terms (a 10% increase in revenue). Datadog defines MDEs in relative terms, that is, as percentage lifts relative to the control.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A Minimum Detectable Effect (MDE) is the smallest change you can detect between experiment variants for a given metric. MDEs can be absolute (for example, a $1,000 increase) or relative (for example, a 10% increase). Datadog uses relative MDEs, expressed as percentage change from the control.
```
Just suggest to reword a bit for clarity

## What is the difference between a true and a measured effect? 

> To understand Minimum Detectable Effects, it is essential to recognize the difference between the true effect of a variant and the measured effect. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To understand Minimum Detectable Effects, it’s important to distinguish between the true effect of a variant and the measured effect observed in an experiment.
```

For example, if you’re designing an experiment to improve a service’s sign-up rate, setting a relative MDE of 10% means you’re designing the experiment to detect a 10% or greater difference in sign-up rates between variants.

Let’s say the sign-up rate in the control variant is 20%. If the experiment’s power is set to 80%, and the true value of the sign-up rate in the treatment variant is 22% or greater (a 10% relative increase), the experiment will reach statistical significance at least 80% of the time. However, if the true value of the sign-up rate in your treatment group is less than 22%, the experiment will reach statistical significance less than 80% of the time.

## How are MDEs related to sample size?

In general, the more samples you have in your experiment, the smaller your MDE. In other words, the more subjects are assigned to the experiment, the easier it is to detect small changes between variants. If your organization (or specific experiment) tends to have fewer subjects available, an experiment may need to run for many weeks to reach the sample size required.

> ## How should I choose an appropriate MDE?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Choosing an appropriate MDE
```
